[pull] primary from flybywiresim:primary (#91)
Valastiri/fbw-userguide: docs/start/perf-tips.md

# Performance Tips
---

> !!! warning "Disclaimer"

Reviewer: Use the warning icon instead of !!!. Here and elsewhere.
```suggestion
⚠ Disclaimer ⚠
```

Reviewer 2: Will this still provide the same format as before?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/67422707/123228767-a1a10280-d4cd-11eb-8bbd-f51ccc009185.png)

Reviewer: Hmmm. Interesting. It seems we're not really using Markdown then 😅?

>     Your results may vary depending on your hardware and other outside factors.
> 
>     This means you may experience no performance increase so please make a note of existing settings in case you need to revert.
> 
>     This guide is for a simulator wide performance increase.
> 
>     **Please note, this is for Nvidia Graphics cards only**

Reviewer: On any code block, the formatting inside the code block won't work.
I wouldn't make anything a code block, because you're not writing code.
Make everything a regular text block.

Decrease the usage of paragraphs.

I'll make a suggestion for this block, but the same applies elsewhere.

```suggestion
This guide is for a simulator wide performance increase. Your results may vary depending on your hardware and other outside factors. This means you may experience no performance increase so please make a note of existing settings in case you need to revert.

**This guide is for Nvidia graphics cards only.**
```

Reviewer: Given that we're not using markdown. I guess my comment here also doesn't make sense (other than that I think having less paragraphs is better).

> Author Credit: *BenW on Discord*

Reviewer: Usually the writer of a piece is called "Author", not "Author Credit".
Note that someone else also uses the name BenW on Discord, there's no way of knowing which BenW wrote this. If you want people to be able to send you messages, include the numeric ID of the Discord name.
```suggestion
Author: BenW on Discord
```

Reviewer 2: Ahh okay. I was following the format from another page! https://docs.flybywiresim.com/airliner-flying-guide/overview/

Reviewer: I understand. Maybe @tshomas or someone else can also change their "Author Credit" 😀.

Reviewer 3: > I understand. Maybe @tshomas or someone else can also change their "Author Credit" 😀.

Didn't realize this initially. I'll update the airliner guide accordingly as this is a good idea.

---

## Windows Settings

- Make sure your graphics drivers are up to date. You can do this by using NVIDIA GeForce Experience. Or downloading directly from their website.

- Make sure windows itself is up to date. This can be done under the `Update & Security` tab in Windows settings.

> - Under the `Gaming` tab in Windows settings, navigate to `Captures`. I would recomend turning off `Background Recording`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Under the `Gaming` tab in Windows settings, navigate to `Captures`. We would recommend turning off `Background Recording`.
```
Change to "we" and typo. 

Assume entire document is FBW authored

- Then, navigate to the `Game Mode` tab. Make sure it is set to `On`.

- Set graphics performance to `High Performance`, instructions below. (This may be less effective on a desktop than a laptop).

!!! info "Methods - Graphics Performance"

    === "Windows Store Version"

>         Open Windows settings and search for `Graphics Settings`.
> 
>         Under 'Choose an app to set preferecne', select `Microsoft Store App`. 
> 
>         In the dropdown below, find and select `Microsoft Flight Simulator`, then add.
> 
>         Click options, then select `High Performance`, save your selection.
> 
>         You can now close Windows Settings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Open Windows settings and search for `Graphics Settings`.

        - Under 'Choose an app to set preference, select `Microsoft Store App`. 

        - In the dropdown below, find and select `Microsoft Flight Simulator`, then add.

        - Click options, then select `High Performance`, save your selection.

        You can now close Windows Settings.
```

        

    === "Steam Version"

>         Open Windows settings and search for `Graphics Settings`.
> 
>         Under 'Choose an app to set preferecne', select `Desktop App` anc click Browse
> 
>         You will need to locate the Microsoft Flight Simulator executable.
> 
>         The default location for steam is:
> 
>         `C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\MicrosoftFlightSimulator\FlightSimulator.exe`
> 
>         (If you have it installed in another location, point it there instead)
> 
>         Click options, then select `High Performance`, save your selection.
> 
>         You can now close Windows Settings.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Open Windows settings and search for `Graphics Settings`.

        - Under 'Choose an app to set preference, select `Desktop App` and click Browse

        You will need to locate the Microsoft Flight Simulator executable.

        The default location for steam is:

        - `C:\Program Files (x86)\Steam\steamapps\common\MicrosoftFlightSimulator\FlightSimulator.exe`

        (If you have it installed in another location, point it there instead)

        - Click options, then select `High Performance`, save your selection.

        You can now close Windows Settings.
```

> - Lastly, I would recomend closing any programs running in the background that you don't need. This can be done in your system tray (the upwards pointing arrow to the right side of the task bar). Right click the icon of the program you would like to close and close it. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Lastly, we would recommend closing any programs running in the background that you don't need. This can be done in your system tray (the upwards pointing arrow to the right side of the taskbar). Right-click the icon of the program you would like to close and close it. 
```

Reviewer 3: Oh for this... shouldn't it be "end task" after the right-click?

Reviewer 2: For closing things in the system tray? No, there are multiple variations of the wording so I thought I would just type close. For example, discord says 'Close Discord', Nvidia stuff just says 'Close'

Reviewer 3: Oh for some reason I was thinking you were in task manager. Carry on :P

>     - You may have a lot of programs open here that you don't use often but start with Windows. You can stop them automatically runing by going to task manager, navigating to the `Start-up` tab and disabling programs you don't want to start with Windows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - You may have a lot of programs open here that you don't use often but start with Windows. You can stop them automatically running by going to task manager, navigating to the `Start-up` tab and disabling programs you don't want to start with Windows.
```

!!! warning "Please note"

>     After an update in MSFS, it isn't unheard of that your graphics drivers may become 'out of date' and cause some performance issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    After an update to MSFS, it isn't unheard of that your graphics drivers may become 'out of date' and cause some performance issues.
```

Reviewer: of? 😀

>     If this happens and you notice a decrease in performance, you can try rolling back your graphics driver until a new one is available.

Reviewer 3: Bit confused here. If the user's drivers are "out of date", why rollback after an update.

Reviewer 2: Sometimes after a major update, the older driver is actually better for you than the newer driver. Nvidia might release a newer driver but it can cause a performance hit. In this case, it would then be best to roll back to the driver you were on until a new one comes out.

We can either re word this or get rid of it as it is one of the more advanced steps

    **Do this at your own risk**
---

## NVIDIA GeForce Experience

Open GeForce Experience and navigate to the settings cog. Under `General` turn off the `In-Game Overlay`.

This disables a feature called ShadowPlay, which is similar to the background recording we talked about in Windows settings.

> Alternatively, if you do want to use the overlay, you can leave it on, but turn off ShadowPlay individually by pressing `Alt + Z` and making sure `Instant Replay` is set to off. I would recommend disabling the overlay entirely though if you don't plan on using it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alternatively, if you do want to use the overlay, you can leave it on, but turn off ShadowPlay individually by pressing ++alt+z++ and making sure `Instant Replay` is set to off. We would recommend disabling the overlay entirely though if you don't plan on using it.
```

Creates a key 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1619968/123189120-d3b36400-d4cf-11eb-94d7-6088f2935887.png)

> (The less overlays you have running, the better performance you will get. Examples of overlays are the Steam Overlay, Windows Game Bar etc.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(The fewer overlays you have running, the better performance you will get. Examples of overlays are the Steam Overlay, Windows Game Bar etc.)
```
This one is up 2 you. Just a grammatical word swap idea.

- Texture Filtering Quality - `High Performance`
    - This setting may mean you lose a small amount of quality in textures with the benefit of more FPS, you can experiment with this to achieve an acceptable balance.
- Vertical Sync - `On`
    - If you have a G-SYNC compatible monitor, set Monitor Technology to `G-SYNC Compatible`

Make sure to press `Apply` to save these settings.

!!! info "Global Settings"

    These settings can be applied in the `Global Settings` tab instead of the `Program Settings` tab. This may give you an FPS increase in all of your games.

    If you decide to change settings in the `Global Settings` tab, make sure that Power management mode is set to `Adaptive`.

    You will then need to go into `Program Settings`, choose Microsoft Flight Simulator and change it to `Max Performance` as detailed above.

    This is important, as having it set to Max Performance globally will force your GPU to stay at its max clock speed causing excess heat and power draw, even at idle. It is okay to have this setting in the `Program Settings` tab as we want the GPU to run at its highest clock speed for maximum performance when actually running the game.

>     I would also recommend having Vertical Sync set to `Use the 3D application setting` if choosing to apply these settings globally. This is because most games handle V-Sync well on their own, whereas MSFS doesn't currently.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    We would also recommend having Vertical Sync set to `Use the 3D application setting` if choosing to apply these settings globally. This is because most games handle V-Sync well on their own, whereas MSFS doesn't currently.
```

---

##Microsoft Flight Simulator

These settings are ultimately up to you. It all depends on your hardware and weather you want higher FPS, or a better looking game. You will need to find a balance between performance and graphical quality for your specific hardware.

You can use the built in settings presets (low, medium, high and ultra) to establish a baseline. Once you have found a preset you like, you can then start to change individual settings to further optimise your experience. I strongly encourage you to make a note of existing settings in case you wish to revert back to your previous settings for any reason.

Below is a really useful guide which shows what each graphics setting in Microsoft Flight Simulator does, as well as outlining how they affect your performance. You can use it in conjunction with this guide to help you dial in your Microsoft Flight Simulator graphics settings. 

> 
> [MSFS Settings Guide](https://forums.flightsimulator.com/t/how-to-graphics-settings-and-performance-guide-3-16-2021/132407){ .md-button }
> 
> ---
> 
> !!! note "Note"
> 
>     After applying all off these settings it is essential that you restart your PC for some of them to take effect.
> 
>     I would also recommend restarting your PC each time you experiment and change graphics settings from within Microsoft Flight Simulator.

Reviewer 3: So you can either remove the `---` here and leave the note **as is** OR try the suggestion below and see how it looks.

```suggestion

!!! note "Note"

    After applying all off these settings it is essential that you restart your PC for some of them to take effect.

    I would also recommend restarting your PC each time you experiment and change graphics settings from within Microsoft Flight Simulator.

[MSFS Settings Guide](https://forums.flightsimulator.com/t/how-to-graphics-settings-and-performance-guide-3-16-2021/132407){ .md-button }
```

Reviewer 2: Line 131 needs a 'we' too

Reviewer 3: Oh can you change the `!!! note "Note"` to -> `!!! info "Note"`

the `!!! note` isn't styled with our colors :P and it's a bit of a pain to go fix that when info already is and achieves the same function.
